Rick establishes himself as a bad influence on his grandson Morty when it is discovered that Morty has missed a semester of school in the time he's spent on adventures with Rick.
Rick takes Morty to another dimension, known as Dimension 35-C, which has the perfect conditions for growing "Mega Trees", which Rick requires for his research.
In order to get past intergalactic customs, Morty hides the Mega Tree seeds in his rectum, but when their cover is blown, Rick and Morty escape while engaging in a shootout with bureaucratic alien insects.
Ultimately, the seeds are used to briefly make Morty highly intelligent, causing his parents to believe he is fine with his education and let Rick stay.
But the seeds' energy is wasted with Morty writhing from the aftereffects as Rick informs his grandson that they need to go back and get more before going into a nonsensical angry rant that they'll be going on a lot of other crazy adventures.

Morty's dog Snuffles angers Jerry by continuously peeing on the carpet.
Upset, Jerry asks Rick for a device that could make Snuffles smarter.
After warning Jerry of the consequences, Rick makes the device, and it makes Snuffles smart enough for him to be able to do things like a normal human like going to bathroom.
Meanwhile, Rick plans to enter the dreams of Morty's math teacher, Mr.
Goldenfold, in order for him to increase Morty's grades, thus letting Morty adventure with Rick more often.
The two enter Goldenfold's dream.
The dream takes place on a plane, and Rick, strapping a fake bomb to himself, pretends to be a terrorist threatening to blow up the plane if Goldenfold doesn't give Morty better grades but Goldenfold decides to fight back, and pulls out two machine guns.
Rick realizes that Goldenfold has more control over his dreams than he had anticipated, and also reveals that if they die in the dream, they die in real life.

Meanwhile, Jerry is showing the family how he is using Snuffles's increased intelligence to his advantage.
Snuffles is starting to develop the ability to speak, and Rick didn't put more batteries in the device, which would enable him to have more intelligence and power.

Still stuck in the dream, Rick tries to negotiate with Goldenfold using his idol, Mrs.
Pancakes, as a human shield.
Instead, chaos descends on the plane.
The doors to the plane are opened, and everyone gets sucked out.
Mrs.
Pancakes finds a parachute and opens it, while Goldenfold has already landed the plane.
Rick and Morty grab onto Pancakes, but Goldenfold has created a device to pluck Pancakes out of the sky and leave Rick and Morty to fall in a pool of lava.
The two then incept themselves into Pancakes' dreams to slow time down.
Pancakes' dreams are of an intergalactic sex club and S&M dungeon, filled with dominatrices.
Rick plans to blend in using an S&M outfit, but a lingerie-clad Summer makes the two feel uncomfortable, making them standout.
A centaur guard threatens to kill them, and they venture, once more, into another dream.
In the centaur's dream, the three have to run away from a knockoff of Freddy Krueger, named Scary Terry.

Meanwhile, Snuffles has created a robotic arm and a speaker that he uses to grab things and communicate, albeit in broken English.
While Jerry wants to remove the device from Snuffles, Summer convinces him to leave the dog alone, saying that once an animal gains sentience, it would be wrong to take it away.
Snuffles' view on life changes after watching a TV special about dogs being domesticated and being forced into subservience.

Still finding an escape, Rick and Morty travel into a little girl's dream to escape Scary Terry.
After returning to what looks like the same dream, the two also find out that Terry can travel across dreams.

After building himself into a robot hybrid, Snuffles changes his name to Snowball and assumes dominance over the household.

While in a new dream, Rick and Morty are still being chased by Terry.
The two decide to hide from him, and evade him for several hours.
The two follow him back into his house and enter his dreams.
They see that he is fearful of being a failure in his job and save him from being embarrassed in school.
In return, he helps them return to reality, and in the process convince Goldenfold to raise Morty's grades.

Back in the regular world, they find that Snowball, now wearing a mech suit, has led an army of hyper-intelligent dogs into the verge of global domination over humanity.
Snowball allows Morty to live by his side while the rest of the world are entrapped and enslaved under the whim of the dogs.
While the dogs are subjecting the humans to similar practices the humans subjected the dogs to (e.g.
neutering and greyhound racing), Morty lives in luxury.
Rick appears to him one day, and reveals that the two are actually in Snowball's dream which he incepted them into moments after they returned.
Rick poisons Morty's kidneys, making Snowball care for Morty's health.
Snowball comes out of his dream and realizes that oppressing the humans just brings heartbreak and cruelty.
So Snowball and the dogs decide instead to inhabit a world of their own.